are you thinking about signing up for
the table topics Master role at your
local Toastmasters Club meeting but
you're not exactly sure where to get
started don't worry you've come to the
perfect place in this video I am going
to show you a live example of me taking
on the table topics Master role at my
local Toastmasters Club hey everyone my
name is Wade Patterson I am passionate
about impactful communication that
includes all sorts of things such as
Toastmasters public speaking skills
communication skills in general so if
those are areas of life that you are
working on or trying to improve please
subscribe to my channel I do my best to
put out a lot of content that will help
you accomplish your public speaking or
communication goals I actually did
another video not so long ago about how
to take on the table topics Master role
I'm going to link to it as well you're
going to see it up in the corner and
check that video out because I go into a
little bit more detail in terms of
preparing for the actual role with this
video it's the live example you'll get
to see me actually doing the role and
afterward I'm going to make a couple of
comments on what went well and areas I
could have improved upon so let's get
right to that video example but just
before we do one note this video doesn't
show the actual table topics answers
because not everyone is comfortable with
being filmed and having their answers on
a YouTube video but that's no problem at
all you're going to see my table topics
questions and then you'll see me right
after the speaker speaks and I will
transition into the next question so
this will give you an idea of how you
take on specifically the table topics
Master rule so let's take a look at that
live example thank you madam Toastmaster
Madam area director fellow Toastmasters
in person on on zoom and our welcome
guest Tim table topics is one of the
most exciting parts of the Toastmasters
meeting because it forces us to be
audacious in our answers it inspires
impromptu thinking table topics isn't a
section you can really prepare for given
today's theme of Courage my first
question goes to Johannes Johannes when
is an example of a time in your life
that you have summoned up the courage to
deal with a difficult situation
great job Johannes I've seen and heard
about those Spartan races and yes that
is courageous to sign up very well done
on that
Tim my next question is for you if
you're comfortable are you comfortable
taking on a table topics question
well
you're about to find out
the question for you Tim is on the flip
side so I asked Johannes about a time he
summed up the courage to deal with a
difficult situation on the flip side can
you share a time in your life where you
wished you would have summoned up that
courage but you didn't in that moment
foreign
it's a difficult one the question itself
of acknowledging a time that you didn't
have the courageousness but I was tuned
in on Zoom last week and I saw Tim
respond to the table topics question so
I could tell that he'd be able to take
it on and sometimes you get the perfect
person to answer a question just a great
answer there Tim very well done
Moya in your presentation which was
fantastic learning point for all of us
on how to take on contests one of the
things I was wondering is maybe a little
bit of an editorial side of it
our Zoom contests good or bad for
Toastmasters the fact that now we have
the contests past a certain
point
Zoom only is that a good thing or is
that a bad thing
all right there you have it so let's
talk now a little bit about some of the
things I did well and some of the things
I could have improved upon in that table
topics Master role the first thing I
think I did pretty well was the quality
and the delivery of the questions the
first two questions had to do
specifically with the theme of the
meeting which was courage and that first
question how did you summon up the
courage to deal with a difficult
situation and then the second question
when was a time when you didn't summon
up that courage but you wish you had
those were I felt good questions
especially for the club members that I
picked and their ability to answer those
thought provoking enough but not so
complicated that I would putting them in
a spot to fail or that they would
struggle with it so I liked the
questions the third question I thought
was a good question however my delivery
of it wasn't as strong wrong as I would
have liked I fumbled over my words a
little bit as I tried to articulate that
question but thankfully the club member
I was asking it to she is a phenomenal
Club member and was able to handle that
question no problem so overall quality
of questions I felt was pretty strong in
this table topics role the second thing
I did well was right off the start the
introductions we had an area director in
the room and I started off by
acknowledging the area director Mr or
Madam Toastmaster the rest of the
Toastmasters the Toastmasters on zoom
and welcome guests I brought everybody
into the fold and that is something
especially in the Toastmasters program
that is important to think about is that
you want your introductions to be proper
relevant and it's a nice formality this
translates to real life as well if
you're presenting in front of a group of
people acknowledging certain people in
the crowd even if you're emptying a
wedding this is something I talk about
in that video how to emcee a wedding
getting into those formalities this is
great practice and that's something I
think I did well the third thing I
excelled at in this table topics Master
role was the transitions between
questions this is a skill that is
something I've worked on for a long time
but it's very powerful when you have the
ability to not simply stand up at the
front of the room and ask questions
which is what beginners often do in the
table topics Master role but beyond that
listening carefully to the answers and
then as you think that table topics
answer respondent or Club member you
make a little comment about something
that they specifically said that helps
make the whole session just feel very
smooth and it's it's really a skill that
that separates good speakers from great
speakers that ability to transition
naturally and it makes everything feel
very comfortable very easy to listen to
two other small things that I think I
did pretty well in this table topics
Master session was the use of the word
of the day the word of the day was
audacious anytime you take on a
Toastmasters role challenge yourself to
use the word of the day this is
something that is is nice it's a nice
addition it's a good challenge as a
speaker but again it has that real life
application because if you're speaking
at a conference and there's a theme to
that conference by using that word or
that theme in your speech it makes it
feel like your speech or your speaking
opportunity is tailor-made is customized
to that particular event and it's
meaningful to do that I used audacious
which was good good and the final thing
that I did pretty well in this table
topics Master role again a very small
thing but I exited the stage opposite of
where the table topic speaker was coming
from if they were coming from my left I
would shake their hand
you never want to leave the stage empty
you shake their hand and then I would
exit to my right if the speaker was
coming from the right I would shake his
or her hand and then I would exit to the
left this way it eliminates the crossing
of paths or the awkward movement
moving past each other in a relatively
small speaking area a very minor thing
but something that I think I did well
all right enough about what I did well
where could I have improved upon on this
table topics Master Journey there were
three things that I think I could have
done better the first the question was
to a club member actually a guest so a
new guest in our club his name's Tim and
I put him a bit on the spot I asked him
if he was comfortable with the question
while I was standing in front of
everyone and that's not the greatest
approach what I should have done is I
should have spoken to Tim earlier before
the meeting even started I did have an
opportunity but I didn't do this and I
should have asked him if he'd be
comfortable with the question we never
want to set up guests for failure or
make them feel uncomfortable to answer a
question I do believe in challenging
people to to push them a little bit
outside their comfort zone however doing
so in front of the whole group wasn't
really fair to Tim the reason I chose to
do it is because I had seen him speak in
a previous meeting and he was a pretty
strong speaker he's already operating at
an elite level therefore I figured Tim
could handle the question and he did he
knocked it out of the park he did a
fantastic job but my approach to the
situation could have been a bit better
in that situation a second thing that I
could have improved upon is something I
already mentioned that was the third
question I asked I fumbled over my words
a little bit
the question itself I think was a good
question what I was trying to ask is now
that the Toastmasters program has moved
contests Beyond a certain level to
Virtual only is that a good thing or is
that a bad thing because I have my own
opinions on that choice I think that
speaking in person is important from a
contest point of view and I don't think
that purely virtual is necessarily a
great idea
but I wanted to ask somebody who's high
up within our Club Who's involved with
contests to force her to give an opinion
on the subject so I think the question
was a good question but I fumbled over
the delivery that is something that I
could have improved upon and will aim to
improve upon in future table topics
Master roles a final thing that I missed
a bit of an opportunity on was coming up
at the end of the table topic session
and tying a bow on it wrapping it up and
handing it back to the Toastmaster the
reason I didn't do this is that we were
a little bit tight for time and
squeezing in that third question pushed
us to a little bit far back therefore
the Toastmaster was eager to get the
meeting back on time but that's on me I
should have time managed a little bit
better perhaps not asked a third
question just two questions so that I
could have come back up and then wrapped
up the table topic session but there's
some debate there because you also want
to get as many questions questions as
possible out to club members overall I
was pretty happy with how it went but
there definitely were a few areas I
could have improved upon the feedback
from the general evaluator was that I
did an excellent job with the role they
thought that the questions were strong
they thought that the people I asked
were the right people to ask in that
meeting so positivity from the general
evaluator which was something that was
nice to hear so if you were on the fence
thinking about taking on the table
topics Master role do it absolutely do
it one of the best things about this
role is that you don't have to take on a
table topics question you are the one
with all the power table topics
questions are such a difficult
challenging part of a Toastmasters
meeting and you get that power you don't
have to answer a question you're the one
asking the questions this is something
that any skill level Toastmaster can
take on whether you're a beginner
moderate or Advanced Sign up for that
table topics Master role I hope this
video has been helpful for you if it was
please consider subscribing to my
channel that would mean so much to me I
love putting out these videos this
content and it means so much when I hear
comments from somebody in India or
Indonesia or Portugal saying that they
are a Toastmasters member and my video
helped them accomplish one of the
Toastmasters tasks
I can't ask for anything more than that
it means so much so thank you for all of
the support I really appreciate it and I
will see you on the next one thank you
so much for watching this video if you
are looking for a little bit of coaching
help with your next speech I am
providing one-on-one evaluations my
contact email is in the video
description reach out to me and let's
discuss what that could look like